# X and Os Artificial Intelligence
## Overview
This module has a class to create instance of AIs designed to play the game "X and Os" (also referred to as "naughts and cross").<br>
With it, you can create these AI objects, play against them or have them play against each other, while they automatically learn from the games. To reduce memory space, the AI stores board states as integers, generated by interpretting the board as a base-three number.<br>

This project was inspired by the following video:
<iframe width="420" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sw7UAZNgGg8">
</iframe>

## How To Use
Copy the module file anywhere where your Python interpreter can find it (usually in the same directory as your main file). Then import the module like you would any other module, using `import`.<br>
There is also a main procedure in the module to see a demonstration of the AI.<br>
The symbols used by the AI can be changed at the top of the class's declaration.

## Analysis
From the demonstration, you can notice that X wins the majority and O wins very few games. This is simply due to the advantage X gets from playing first. As the games progress, the amount of wins for either player decreases and the amount of draws increase. This is because the AIs are deleting/forgetting moves that lead to a loss. After about 9000 games, the AIs stop winning/losing to each other.

## The XnOs_AI Class
### Important Functions
`def game_state(self, board_state:int|str) -> str:`<br>
Takes a board state as either an integer or string.<br>
Returns a character that represents the state of this board; "X" if X won, "O" if O won, "." if the game is incomplete, and "-" if the game is a draw.

`def start_game(self, symbol:str=None) -> str:`<br>
Clears the AI's memory of the past moves.<br>
Takes a character that represents which player this AI is, either "X" or "O".<br>
Returns an empty board represented with a string.

`def move(self, board_state:str) -> str:`<br>
Asks the AI to choose a move, remember that move and return the new board state with their move added. The AI also forgets the last move if it receives a board state in which it lost.<br>
Takes a board state as a string.<br>
Returns the new board state, after the AI made a move, represented with a string.
